# New Functions
## Waiting
### `uwait`
`uwait` is a function that waits for a specified amount of microseconds. It is
very accurate, on Windows there is a limit of min 1000 microseconds, on Linux
it is 1 microsecond. 

```js
uwait(1000) // Wait 1 millisecond
```
### `mwait`
`mwait` is a function that waits for a specified amount of milliseconds. 

```js
mwait(1000) // Wait 1 second
```

### `wait` (alias for `swait`)
`wait` is a function that waits for a specified amount of seconds. 

```js
wait(1) // Wait 1 second
```
***
All wait methods also return a function that will wait the exact same amount of time.
```js
var mywait = uwait(300)
mywait() // Waits 300 microseconds

while (wait(1)) {
    print("Hello World")
}
```
## Logging
### `warn`
`warn` is a function that prints a warning message to the console. It is
equivalent to `print` but prints with a yellow colored notice.

```js
warn("This is a warning")
```
### `info`
`info` is a function that prints an info message to the console. It is
equivalent to `print` but prints with a blue colored notice.

```js
info("This is an info message")
```
## String
### `string.split`
`string.split` is a function that splits a string into a table of strings
based on a delimiter.

```js
var myString = "Hello World"
var myTable = string.split(myString, " ")
print(myTable[1]) // Hello
print(myTable[2]) // World
```
### `string.get`
`string.get` is a function that gets a character from a string at a specified
index.

```js
var myString = "Hello World"
print(string.get(myString, 1)) // H
print(string.get(myString, 2)) // e
```
### `string.set`
`string.set` is a function that sets a character in a string at a specified
index.

```js
var myString = "Hello World"
string.set(myString, 1, "h")
print(myString) // hello World
```
## Math
### `math.inf`
`math.inf` is a constant that represents infinity.

```js
print(math.inf) // inf
```
### `math.nan`
`math.nan` is a constant that represents not a number.

```js
print(math.nan) // nan
```
### `math.maxinteger`
`math.maxnumber` is a constant that represents the maximum number.

```js
print(math.maxnumber) // 1.7976931348623157e+308
```
### `math.mininteger`
`math.minnumber` is a constant that represents the minimum number.

```js
print(math.minnumber) // -1.7976931348623157e+308
```
### `math.rand.create`
`math.rand.create` is a function that creates a new random number generator.

```js
var myRand = math.rand.create()
print(math.rand.value(myRand)) // 0.123456789
```
### `math.fabs`
`math.fabs` is a function that returns the absolute value of a number.

```js
print(math.fabs(-10)) // 10
```

### `math.acos`
`math.acos` is a function that returns the arc cosine of a number.

```js
print(math.acos(0.5)) // 1.0471975511965979
```

### `math.acosh`
`math.acosh` is a function that returns the inverse hyperbolic cosine of a number.

```js
print(math.acosh(0.5)) // 0.9624236501192069
```

### `math.asin`
`math.asin` is a function that returns the arc sine of a number.

```js
print(math.asin(0.5)) // 0.5235987755982989
```

### `math.asinh`
`math.asinh` is a function that returns the inverse hyperbolic sine of a number.

```js
print(math.asinh(0.5)) // 0.48121182505960347
```

### `math.atan`
`math.atan` is a function that returns the arc tangent of a number.

```js
print(math.atan(0.5)) // 0.4636476090008061
```

### `math.atan2`
`math.atan2` is a function that returns the arc tangent of a number.

```js
print(math.atan2(0.5, 0.5)) // 0.7853981633974483
```

### `math.atanh`
`math.atanh` is a function that returns the inverse hyperbolic tangent of a number.

```js
print(math.atanh(0.5)) // 0.5493061443340549
```

### `math.cbrt`
`math.cbrt` is a function that returns the cube root of a number.

```js
print(math.cbrt(0.5)) // 0.7937005259840998
```

### `math.ceil`
`math.ceil` is a function that returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to a number.

```js
print(math.ceil(0.5)) // 1
```

### `math.copysign`
`math.copysign` is a function that returns a number with the magnitude of the first number and the sign of the second number.

```js
print(math.copysign(0.5, -0.5)) // -0.5
```

### `math.cos`
`math.cos` is a function that returns the cosine of a number.

```js
print(math.cos(0.5)) // 0.8775825618903728
```

### `math.cosh`
`math.cosh` is a function that returns the hyperbolic cosine of a number.

```js
print(math.cosh(0.5)) // 1.1276259652063807
```

### `math.deg`
`math.deg` is a function that converts a number from radians to degrees.

```js
print(math.deg(0.5)) // 28.64788975654116
```

### `math.erf`
`math.erf` is a function that returns the error function of a number.

```js
print(math.erf(0.5)) // 0.5204998778130465
```

### `math.erfc`
`math.erfc` is a function that returns the complementary error function of a number.

```js
print(math.erfc(0.5)) // 0.4795001221869535
```

### `math.exp`
`math.exp` is a function that returns the value of *e* raised to the power of a number.

```js
print(math.exp(0.5)) // 1.6487212707001282
```

### `math.exp2`
`math.exp2` is a function that returns the value of 2 raised to the power of a number.

```js
print(math.exp2(0.5)) // 1.4142135623730951
```

### `math.expm1`
`math.expm1` is a function that returns the value of *e* raised to the power of a number minus 1.

```js
print(math.expm1(0.5)) // 0.6487212707001282
```

### `math.fdim`

### `math.fma`

### `math.fmax`

### `math.fmin`

### `math.fmod`

### `math.frexp`
`math.frexp` is a function that returns the mantissa and exponent of a number.

```js
print(math.frexp(0.5)) // 0.5, 0
```

### `math.gamma`
`math.gamma` is a function that returns the gamma function of a number.

```js
print(math.gamma(0.5)) // 1.7724538509055159
```

### `math.hypot`
`math.hypot` is a function that returns the square root of the sum of squares of its arguments.

```js
print(math.hypot(0.5, 0.5)) // 0.7071067811865476
```

### `math.isfinite`
`math.isfinite` is a function that returns true if a number is finite.

```js
print(math.isfinite(0.5)) // true
```

### `math.isinf`
`math.isinf` is a function that returns true if a number is infinite.

```js
print(math.isinf(0.5)) // false
```

### `math.isnan`
`math.isnan` is a function that returns true if a number is not a number.

```js
print(math.isnan(0.5)) // false
```

### `math.isnormal`
`math.isnormal` is a function that returns true if a number is normal.

```js
print(math.isnormal(0.5)) // true
```

### `math.ldexp`
`math.ldexp` is a function that returns the value of a number times 2 raised to the power of a number.

```js
print(math.ldexp(0.5, 0.5)) // 0.7071067811865476
```

### `math.lgamma`
`math.lgamma` is a function that returns the logarithm of the absolute value of the gamma function of a number.

```js
print(math.lgamma(0.5)) // 0.5723649429247001
```

### `math.log`
`math.log` is a function that returns the natural logarithm of a number.

```js
print(math.log(0.5)) // -0.6931471805599453
```

### `math.log10`
`math.log10` is a function that returns the base 10 logarithm of a number.

```js
print(math.log10(0.5)) // -0.3010299956639812
```

### `math.log1p`
`math.log1p` is a function that returns the natural logarithm of a number plus 1.

```js
print(math.log1p(0.5)) // 0.4054651081081644
```

### `math.log2`
`math.log2` is a function that returns the base 2 logarithm of a number.

```js
print(math.log2(0.5)) // -1
```

### `math.logb`
`math.logb` is a function that returns the integral part of the logarithm of a number.

```js
print(math.logb(0.5)) // -1
```

### `math.modf`
`math.modf` is a function that returns the integral and fractional parts of a number.

```js
print(math.modf(0.5)) // 0.5, 0
```

### `math.nearbyint`
`math.nearbyint` is a function that returns the integral value that is nearest to a number.

```js
print(math.nearbyint(0.5)) // 1
```

### `math.nextafter`
`math.nextafter` is a function that returns the next representable floating-point number after a number.

```js
print(math.nextafter(0.5, 0.5)) // 0.5000000000000001
```

### `math.pow`
`math.pow` is a function that returns a number raised to the power of a number.

```js
print(math.pow(0.5, 0.5)) // 0.7071067811865476
```

### `math.rad`
`math.rad` is a function that converts a number from degrees to radians.

```js
print(math.rad(0.5)) // 0.008726646259971648
```

### `math.remainder`
`math.remainder` is a function that returns the remainder of a number divided by another number.

```js
print(math.remainder(0.5, 0.5)) // 0
```

### `math.round`
`math.round` is a function that returns the integral value that is nearest to a number.

```js
print(math.round(0.5)) // 1
```

### `math.scalbn`
`math.scalbn` is a function that returns a number times 2 raised to the power of a number.

```js
print(math.scalbn(0.5, 0.5)) // 0.7071067811865476
```

### `math.sin`
`math.sin` is a function that returns the sine of a number.

```js
print(math.sin(0.5)) // 0.479425538604203
```

### `math.sinh`
`math.sinh` is a function that returns the hyperbolic sine of a number.

```js
print(math.sinh(0.5)) // 0.5210953054937474
```

### `math.trunc`
`math.trunc` is a function that returns the integral part of a number.

```js
print(math.trunc(0.5)) // 0
```

## Debug
### `debug.snap`
Read more about this in the [Snap](/Changes/18.snap.md) section.

## Table
### `table.lock` & `table.islock`
Read more about this in the [Locked Tables](/Changes/19.lock.md) section.

