# New libraries
## `ffi`
The Cobalt `ffi` library has been designed to match LuaJIT's `ffi` library. It is not 100% compatible with LuaJIT's `ffi` library but it is close enough to be able to port code from LuaJIT to Cobalt.

You can refer to the [LuaJIT FFI documentation](http://luajit.org/ext_ffi.html) for more information on how to use the `ffi` library.

Cobalt's `ffi` library does not have `ffi.new` but rather `ffi.create`
## `dynamic`
The `dynamic` library is a library that allows you to load dynamic libraries and call functions from them.

(The dynamic library is a test library and is not fully supported yet)

```js
dyn = import("dynamic")
lib = dyn.load("libtest.so")
lib.test() // A maximum of 5 arguments can be passed and they can only be integers
// You shouldnt need to close it, the garbage collector will do it for you
```
## `unix`
The `unix` library is a library that allows you to use unix functions.

It is inspired of [lunix](https://github.com/wahern/lunix) and is only turned on when compiling on a unix system.

## `win`
The `win` library is a library that allows you to use windows functions.

It is written for Windows and is only turned on when compiling on a Windows system. Currently it is not fully supported and is a work in progress.

## `core`
Core is a cross platform library with low-level functions.

The core library gives you access to very low level features, 
if you do not know what you are doing [fatal errors](/2.stricter.md) can occur.
### `core.log`
#### `push`
Pushes a string to the log.
```js
core.log.push("Hello world!")
```
### `core.memory`
#### `alloc`
Allocates a block of memory.
```js
ptr = core.memory.alloc(100)
```
#### `free`
Frees a block of memory.
```js
core.memory.free(ptr)
```
#### `fetch`
Fetches a block of memory.
```js
core.memory.fetch(ptr, 100)
```
#### `set`
Sets a block of memory.
```js
core.memory.set(ptr, 100, 0)
```
#### `realloc`
Reallocates a block of memory.
```js
ptr = core.memory.realloc(ptr, 200)
```
#### `isfree`
Checks if a block of memory is free.
```js
core.memory.isfree(ptr)
```
#### `get`
Gets a block of memory.
```js
core.memory.get(ptr, 100)
```
#### `perm`
Sets the permissions of a block of memory.
```js
core.memory.perm(ptr, 100, 0)
```