# Preprocessor
## Features
The preprocessor adds alot of features like:
- `f"{x}, {y}"` statements like in Python
- `#if`, `#ifdef`, `#define`, like preprocessor directives in C
- Typechecker

## Interface
The preprocesser requires the `preprocess` library built in to Cobalt. You
can use it like:
```bash
cobaltpre file outfile -A=true
```
imagining that the contents of `file` is:
```cpp
#define X 10

#ifdef A // A was provided as an argument
print("A is defined")
#else
print("A is not defined")
#endif
```
it will generate `outfile` to be:
```js
var X = 10

print("A is defined")
```
## Typechecker
```js
var x: int = 0
```
is valid Cobalt code but wont really have a difference for just saying ``var x = 0`` but if you use the typechecker built in the preprocessor it will check:
```js
var             x:        int = 0
^               ^          ^    ^
definition      name     type   value
```
### Definition
Definiton is how is the variable being defined, if you do not use `var` it 
will be a one-time typecheck. If you use `var` it will save the name and
type to a cache so if:
```js
x = "hi"
```
it will error since it remembers `x` was forced to `int`.
### Name
The name is stored to a cache if `var` is used otherwise it serves
no purpose.
### Type
The type is the target type to check that `value` follows. A full list of
types can be found by using 
```bash
cobaltpre -types
```

If `value` does not follow the `type` rule it will error.
### Value
The value is the value being typechecked, if it follows the rule.
### Notes:
- The Typechecker is in **BETA**
- Function arguments and return values cannot be typechecket (yet)
- Function calls inside of the typecheck can sometimes void the checking for that value
- The typechecking might not always trigger (to avoid issues) but when it does (most of the time) it will work.
## Preprocessor directives
### `#define`
Defines a variable in the preprocessor and the actual code.
#### In:
```cpp
#define X 1
```
#### Out:
```js
var X = 1
```
### `#if`, `#else`, `#endif`
Checks if the condition is true and if it is the code inside the `#if` -> `#endif` will be appended to the output source code. If a preprocessor directive is inside of the statement it will be run if the condition is true.
#### In:
```cpp
#if (1+1=2) // ( ) are required for parsing
print("Appended if 1+1=2")
#else
print("Appended if 1+1!=2")
#endif
```

#### Out:
```js
print("Appended if 1+1=2")
```
### `#error`
Raises an error from the preprocessor.
#### In:
```cpp
#define DEBUG true

#if (defined(DEBUG))
#error "Debug is not supported yet"
#else
// code..
#endif
```
#### Terminal:
```bash
cobaltpre file.cobalt outfile.cobalt

...
"Debug is not supported yet"
...
# ... is error information/traceback
```

### `#ifdef` & `#ifndef`
`#ifdef` and `#ifndef` just clears the need to use a `defined()`
#### Example:
```cpp
#ifndef X
// code
#else
// code
#endif
```
```cpp
#ifdef X
// code
#else
// code
#endif
```
### `#elif`
Self explanatory 
```cpp
#ifdef X
// code
#elif (1+1=2)
#else
// code
#endif
```
### `#open`
Opens up a variable/or macros defined only in the preprocessor enviorment to the 
code.

`#define` automatically opens up, but preprocessor variables inputted from the CLI
like `cobaltpre file file -A="B"`. 
#### In:
```lua
#open A

print(A)
```

#### Out:
```lua
print("B")
```

## Language Extension
### `f""`
`f""` is like python's implementation
## In:
```py
x = 10
y = 12
print(f"x is {x} and y is {y}")
```
## Out:
```lua
x = 10
y = 12
print(string.format("x is %s and y is %s", x, y))
```