# FFI
## Introduction

Cobalt FFI (Foreign Function Interface) is a powerful feature that allows you to call C functions and work with C data structures directly from Cobalt code. It provides a way to interact with C libraries without having to write complex Cobalt/C bindings manually.

The Cobalt FFI tries to match the LuaJIT's API but support interpreters.

## Loading the FFI Library

To use Cobalt FFI, you need to load the `ffi` library. This is typically done like this:

```js
var ffi = import("ffi")
```

## Defining C Data Types

Cobalt FFI allows you to define C data types in js, which can be used to interact with C libraries. For example, to define a C `int` type, you can do:

```js
ffi.cdef("typedef int my_int;")
```

## Working with C Functions

You can declare and call C functions using FFI. For example, suppose you have a C function `add` that adds two integers:

```c
int add(int a, int b);
```

In Cobalt FFI, you can declare and use this function as follows:

```js
ffi.cdef("int add(int a, int b);") // Declare the C function

var result = ffi.C.add(10, 20) // Call the C function
print(result) // Prints 30
```

## Working with C Data Structures

You can define C data structures (structs) in js using FFI. For example, to define a `Person` struct in C:

```c
typedef struct {
    char name[50];
    int age;
} Person;
```

In Cobalt FFI, you can define this struct as follows:

```lua
ffi.cdef([[
    typedef struct {
        char name[50];
        int age;
    } Person;
]])
```

You can then create instances of the `Person` struct and access its fields.

```js
var person = ffi.new("Person")
person.name = "John"
person.age = 30

print(person.name, person.age) // Prints "John  30"
```

## Memory Management

Cobalt FFI provides facilities for memory management when dealing with C data structures. You can use `ffi.new()` to allocate memory for new C data structures, and you can use `ffi.gc()` to set up automatic garbage collection for resources.

## C Library Integration

To use a C library with Cobalt FFI, you need to declare its functions and data structures using `ffi.cdef()`, and then you can call those functions and use those structures as if they were native js objects.

## Error Handling

When working with C functions in Cobalt FFI, it's essential to handle errors properly, especially when calling functions that might return error codes or set global error variables.

This is a basic overview of Cobalt FFI. To learn more about Cobalt FFI and its capabilities, it's recommended to refer to the official documentation and tutorials specific to the version of Cobalt you are using, as details may vary between versions.