---
title: Home
navigation: false
layout: page
main:
  fluid: false
---

:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=150px}

::block-hero
---
cta:
  - Documentation
  - /introduction
secondary:
  - GitHub →
  - https://github.com/nuxt-themes/docus
---

#title
A new faster language for all of your programming needs.

#description
Program with a ultrafast, easy to learn, low-level, portable programming language.

#extra
  ::list
  - Insane performance that [**outperforms C**](https://github.com/cobalt-lang/benchmark)
  - **Extensive** standard library
  - **Simplified** API to make cross-platform development easy
  - Easy to learn syntax, like **C and JavaScript**
  - Based on **Lua** and **LuaJIT**
  - Enums, Custom Types, and more
  - **Manual memory management** + **garbage collection**
  - Use C macros, libraries, and more
  - Built-in JIT compiler
  - Typechecker
  - Optional transpiler from **Lua** to **Cobalt**
  - JIT Anaylizer to help you optimize your code
  ::

#support
  ::terminal
  ---
  content:
  - git clone https://github.com/cobalt-lang/cobalt
  - cd cobalt
  - cmake .
  - make && make jit
  - make setup
  - # Read the docs for a more detailed guide on how to install Cobalt
  ---
  ::
::

::card-grid
#title
What's included

#root
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}

#default
  ::card{icon=noto:open-book}
  #title
  Memorable Syntax
  #description
  Cobalt try's to be as memorable as possible, it has a JavaScript-like syntax, but with the power of C.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:rocket}
  #title
  JIT Compiler
  #description
  Cobalt has an optional built-in JIT compiler, which can be used to speed up your code, not only that but includes an JIT anaylizer to help you optimize your code.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:desktop-computer}
  #title
  Use your code anywhere
  #description
  The API has been designed to be as simple as possible, while doing the hard cross-platform work for you. Regardless if you are on Windows, Linux, macOS, or even a console, anywhere. Cobalt has you covered.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:package}
  #title
  Standard Library
  #description
  Cobalt comes with a simple and easy to use standard library, which includes everything you need to get started, from memory functions, I/O, even structs. Not only that
  but you can use C and Lua libraries too.
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:fire}
  #title
  Ultrafast
  #description
  Outperforms C, C++, LuaJIT, and Java in most [benchmarks](https://github.com/cobalt-lang/benchmark).
  ::

  ::card{icon=noto:puzzle-piece}
  #title
  Typechecker
  #description
  Cobalt has a built-in highly customizable typechecker, which can be used to help you find bugs in your code or just keep your code clean.
  ::
::
