# Installation
## Clone repo
Use the following terminal commands to clone Cobalt to your local device.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cobalt-lang/cobalt
cd cobalt
```
## Setup build files
Cobalt is CMake based unlike Lua, so the building process is
slightly different.

```bash
cmake .
```
> *Options:* There are many options for building like:
> - Add support for embedding C in Cobalt `-DFFI=ON`
> (requires arm, or x86/x64)
> - Add support for using Python code and libraries in Cobalt `-DPYTHON=ON`
> (requires Python libraries)
> - Turn off device-specific optimizations for cross-platform `-DCROSS=on`
> - `-DM=2` Memory optimization level in sacrifice of speed
> (1-3, default 1)
> - `-DSDL=ON` Include SDL2 bindings for audio, video, image, and graphics output
> (Requires SDL2, SDL2_image, SDL2_mixer, and SDL2_ttf)
> - `-DPRE_COMPILED` Allow cobalt to import precompiled .dll or .so files 
You can use the options like 
```bash
cmake -DFFI=ON -DPYTHON=ON .
```

Cobalt will look for the required libraries using `pkg-config` and CMAKE findpkg. If the library could not be found you can provide it like `-DPYTHON_PATH_OVERRIDE=/path/to/python/cmake/package/files`

If you are having issues building you can get help on [Github Issues](https://github.com/cobalt-lang/cobalt/issues)
## Make
Now the actual fun part happens, building. Depending on how you configured CMake to generate build files the process could vary. This just covers building with Unix Makefiles.

```bash
make
```

Thats it! You can see the progress of the files compiling and when it completes.
## Install
```bash
make install
```

This installs the include paths, library files, binaries.

Once this is complete you can run tests on cobalt using
```bash
make test
```